=head1 NAME

Toadfarm::Manual::DSL - Domain specific language for Toadfarm

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual gives an overview of which functions are available
when building a L<Toadfarm> script.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

These functions are exported to the caller namespace by default. See
L<Toadfarm/"SYNOPSIS"> for example usage.

=head2 app

  $app = app;

Used to fetch the L<Toadfarm> / L<Mojolicious> instance that the rest of
the functions below are using.

=head2 change_root

  change_root qw(--userspec www-data:www-data /path/to/jail);

Used to change user/group and root directory. Note that this require the
Toadfarm script to be started as "root", but it also requires that the
underlying "chroot" command result in changing the user. Not changing
the effective user from "root" (UID=0) will result in an infinite loop.

This function is experimental and subject to change.

See also L</sudo>.

=head2 logging

  logging {
    combined => 0,
    path     => "/path/to/log/file.log",
    level    => "info",
  };

Used to set up L<Mojo::Log>. See L<Mojo::Log/path> and L<Mojo::Log/level> for
details on the accepted values. C<combined> can be set to true to make all
the L<mounted|/mount> apps use the same L<Mojo::Log> object.

=head2 mount

  mount "/path/to/mojo-app" => \%config;
  mount "My::Mojo::App" => \%config;
  mount "My::Mojo::App";

This function will mount a L<Mojolicious> application in the L<Toadfarm>
application. An application can either be a full path to the application
or a class name. The apps are processed in the order they are defined.
This means that the first app that match a given rule will receive the
request.

See L<Toadfarm::Manual::Config> for details on C<%config>.

An application without L<%config> is considered to be a "catch all"
application, meaning that it will get all the requests that do not
match any of the above.

=head2 plugin

  plugin "My::Mojo::Plugin" => \%config;
  plugin "AccessLog";

Used to load a L<Mojolicious::Plugin>. In addition to the default
L<Mojolicious::Plugin> namespace, this application will also
search in the C<Toadfarm::Plugin::> namespace.

=head2 run_as

  run_as $uid;
  run_as $username;

Use "sudo" (might change) to force the script to be run as a given user.

See also L</change_root>.

=head2 secrets

  secrets @str;

Used to set application L<Mojolicious/secrets>. A random secret will be set
if none is specified.

Note: This function is experimental and might be removed in future
release.

=head2 start

  start;
  start \@listen, %config;
  start %config;

Used to start the application. Both C<@listen> and C<%config> are optional,
but will be used to specify the L<Mojo::Server::Hypnotoad/SETTINGS>.

These three examples do the same thing:

  # 1.
  start proxy => 1;
  # 2.
  start ["http://*:8080"], {proxy => 1};
  # 3.
  start {listen => ["http://*:8080"], proxy => 1};

=head1 SEE ALSO

See also L<Toadfarm::Manual::Intro>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Henning Thorsen - C<jhthorsen@cpan.org>

=cut
